Emotions are a variable of moment-influencing inconsistency. For me, these can be summed up by a landscape, more specifically a journey, one some would consider unorthodox. However my intent is to not make them fit into any norms, nor do I strive for implied difference. Rather, I present an accurate depiction of emotions, regarding those I possess from time to time in my life.

The flat opens up to a wasteland, painted with cracked, desolate hardpan and the occasional patch of sparse, golden dried grass. These elements bake under a harsh and unforgiving sun, with mirages coating the horizon. These elements depict not a dullness or lack of emotion, but plain and unchanging determination, under the cruelties of the world, with a singular desire for progress and betterment. However it isn’t entirely constant.

The horizon marks an abrupt transition, an escape from the dying land to a miniature oasis, spotted with streams and green blades, full with life. Small, dwindling almond trees sprout from these starkly fertile grounds, as though upright disobeying the crushing heat of the day. These small and distant oases represent the occasional achievement or recognition, causing a brief but real sense of not pride but content with the day, yet these too pass ever so soon.

Then there are the caverns. These often follow the oasis, and are as deep and wide as the eyes can perceive. They are filled with sharp, jagged edges and small glints of red light that refract the ever daunting sun above. From within, one would not imagine it even to be day, and as the cavern's mouth grows deeper, deeper, and deeper still, the air around oneself would become impossibly frigid, allowing no one sense to mark and exit from the pit. These are in place to constitute moments in life of self-unforgiveness, despair, or plain disturbance in the field of emotions. These moments are often stretched out, just as the cavern must descend slowly. However there is always an ascension at the end, and as light begins to shine ever so slightly, these moments become more tolerable.

Exiting the cavern, one can spot the rising of towers, impossibly tall and slender, plated with what appears to be crystal panes of varying colors: blue, then cyan, then violet, then blue again. These too are daunting, like the caverns, but not for the same resolve. The traveler knows that these towers host a variety of peoples, whether they are in place to help him he does not know. Sometimes he is offered water, food, shelter, other times he must utilize lead to keep his life intact. Either way, the uncertainty of the coming structures are enough to disturb the traveler. These towers translate to the emotions stirred about by the interactions to be had with others, whether for better or worse, they are not put in place. Just so, they can bring about joy or detest, laughter or resentment. 

Either way, the traveler goes from day to day, hour to hour, walking, riding, and hoping for a final destination. That destination is flat and full with life, a place he can only wish is near.
