This week’s object is glasses, and I have a half troubling, half lighthearted view on the subject. I’ve never really thought I look quite right in glasses, and as such when I learned in about the 3rd grade that I actually needed them, I didn’t take it lightly. The biggest issue was the constant upkeep and maintenance that owning a pair of glasses relied upon, and I’m not the best type for consistency. As such, as soon as the optometry thought it was O.K, I switched over to contacts.

I know a lot of people have a false impression of thinking contacts would be difficult or weird or just an all around unpleasant thought, but it only took me about a week to get used to them, and now it’s more like muscle memory for me. However, prior to using contact lenses (which I got when I was in the sixth grade) I got into the habit of always picking out a pair of glasses at the optometry office that had a built-in tinting property, so the sun didn’t hurt my eyes so much when going outside. However, this had been going on so long that I wasn’t used to the influx of daylight that wearing contact lenses presented.

As such, I did the most logical thing, and bought my first pair of “permanent” sunglasses. Those first pair of Oakleys were great to have around because it was the only way I could go outside without squinting for 90% of the time, and made a lot of things easier for me. However, being the easiest-solution-available guy I was, I never took them off unless indoors. This slowly developed a complete reliance on a tinted world perspective, and in a way never left me.

Starting freshman year, I was still continuously utilizing my Oakley sunglasses throughout the day, and didn’t seem to find a problem with it. Maybe there was a scratch here and there, but otherwise I was cool with it. The first problem presented itself when I attended what I believe was my first high school rally. In a nutshell, there was a class vs. class event, I threw down my prized sunglasses, and those glasses never made their way back to me. Ever since, I’ve gone through two slightly cheaper pairs of sunglasses, and have yet to forget my past and throw a pair into a sprawling and chaotic school rally. 

If you couldn’t tell by now, the moral of the story is never trust anyone with your glasses. You need them. They don’t need them. Things won’t get simpler than that.
