Genius is a term that I believe is used in a variety of contexts where it is not the most preferable term. In fact, when someone is called a “genius,” the first thought that I’m sure comes to mind is a person that excels academically, is good at most any intellectual task, and can in most cases be attributed to having a “nerdy” personality.

This, however, is not what I and many others would like to believe genius means. Someone who is good at everything is common, but it is those who are great at one thing that can be considered “geniuses.” Take for instance your classic High School Junior. He’s got a couple of C’s, a majority of his classes are B’s, but then you get to that one elective where he’s actually involved. The subject matter in which the curiosity and passion of a person can really shine. He’s got an A in that, and is generally receiving questions from his peers on the material. This is what you find in a real genius, because if all you can do is attempt to excel at everything that comes your way, you’ll fall short somehow or another. 

As humans, we have limiting factors that prevent us from being “the perfect person.” But this is OK. What we need to recognize is specialization, which is where genius is born. I recently stumbled upon “Genius personality quiz” from National Geographic. This quiz involved the typical questions, like “Which contest would you most likely win,” or, “What school subject did you excel in?” When I got done with my quiz it was relatively accurate, predicting my “type of genius” to be Steve Jobs. On the surface, this is correct. I am an avid programmer, and have enjoyed many areas of STEM related research. 

It is the less generalized parts of Jobs’ character that the test failed to accurately predict in me. For instance, Jobs is noted as being a stubborn, mercurial person, with a sharp eye for details. I have been considered a perfectionist in varying areas of study, but I do not see myself as stubborn, demeaning, or prone to mood changes frequently. For this reason, the term “genius” is not a cover word for a certain type of person, but rather extends to accommodate for the widely different forms of intellectually successful.

“Genius” is not a term to be lightly used when revering someone who is denoted as having accomplished or will accomplish something great. Neither does this mean that the character traits of being up to your nose in studies make you a genius. It is a word that can broadly describe a range of endearing people, and when you look hard enough for it, can without a doubt be found in you.
