In response to the anticipation guide for the recently viewed documentary, “The Mask You Live in,” my position on the importance of fatherhood and the way in which it is portrayed in the media as incompetent or secondary to motherhood would most immediately be one of contrasting belief. The presence of a father in any family is something I see as inherently valuable and deserves a greater degree of attention in the thought processes of the younger generation today.

Most often arguments are built upon the idea that a family does not need a masculine figure to thrive and support the raising of strong-minded individuals. The belief in such arguments is that a woman is just as capable as a man of protecting one's children from external, harmful influences. I believe that while in some cases mothers are great at caring for their children to this degree, a father is far more capable of establishing a good role model for young men in their growing years and a strong support for young women. 

This is something that, despite the unparalleled love that is given unconditionally by one’s mother can only truly be depended on in a fatherly figure, and thus necessitates that more people are brought up in a world of crime and poverty with those who can care for them in both ways.

A really great example of the importance of having a loving father in one’s life was presented in multiple occurrences while viewing “The Mask You Live in,” which heavily addressed the struggles of young boys today to embrace a positive form of masculinity while not following the media’s portrayals of distorted and toxic behaviours. However, the documentary did well to address the heavy role that fathers play in raising up young men, as was seen in the greater rates of crime that come from populations that are born into a world where the only figure they can rely on is their mother. 

This is not a fully negative depiction of the roles of mothers, however, but merely represents the underlying importance of keeping a fatherly figure in balance with one’s priorities and long-term goals in life. If you have someone who has gone through everything you have to live out, it is best to lean on them when issues arise. This allows mistakes not to be repeated for personal gain, but learned from.

In everything that life has to test you with, it is of great importance that we place ourselves at the root of the issue and by doing so find ones we can rely on for help. It just so happens that in many of these circumstances, even when contrary to popular opinion, that figure is best suited to be Dad. 
