I know that when I was younger-- much younger, more than half of my life has gone by since then, I used to live in Manteca on a pretty basic street in the middle of what my younger brain perceived as nowhere. This of course was a full 9 years ago, so since then my memory has fogged over, almost like those memories you come to recall after being told of something you did or something you were present for over and over and over again, but can’t really on your own remember what happened. This is like a fogged memory, but all the more important. I was in a state of expectation for what would come next, as nothing was ever out of the ordinary or unprecedented compared to my usual schedule. Breakfast, school, come home, homework (if any), dinner, and repeat. 

However, that was 9 years ago. That’s when I moved to Ripon. Initially I was really upset at my parents, which looking back was rather arrogant of me, but looking back I know they had my best interests in mind. Their primary motive of moving to Ripon was of course the incredible education system we have here, but I didn’t know that back then. All I had coursing through my head was I’m being torn away from my school friends for no good reason. However, I didn’t have many friends anyway (yeah, that was me) and after only a month or two the effect wore off. Starting the fourth grade at Parkview was probably the greatest thing to have happened up till now in my academic life, and not knowing it then would set me up for more opportunities than I was aware of at the time.

The benefit of the switch was not only from an educational standpoint, but I was also happy to adjust to home location, that being directly across from orchards on the corner of my block, which had a much different feel in the rural/suburban setting compared to the heart of bustling Manteca. It was a nice change, and I with time developed many good memories of playing in those fields and taking walks around the orchard just for the sheer joy of it. As of late (about a year or so now) a fence has been erected between the street and those orchards, which came as a disappointment, but it’s still the best scenery to wake up to directly across the street through my window.

Generally, despite my initial doubts regarding the move from Manteca to Ripon, I eventually came to greatly appreciate the wise choice of my parents, and had I not done so wouldn’t be where I am now. I don’t always follow my own teachings as well as I’d like to, but I still strive to approach change with a more positive attitude when it manifests itself in my life, and in doing so I hope to lead a smarter life.
